# tictactoe

The Tic Tac Toe project was my first project using factory functions and really trying to understand what was happening there. I realise there were many benefits to using factory functions, particularly with not having to use new and class commands, and being able to build objects with selected properties, however in this project I had to work hard to figure out how to do certain things without a prototype.

I initially got the game working with a very simplistic computer player (only looking one move ahead) and thought implementing the minimax algorithm for a more advanced AI would just be a case of extending that function, but by creating copies of the board for each branch of the algorithm. That is when I run into the problem, that when objects are copied there are enumerable and non-enumerable properties, and all different types of properties that cannot simply be copied over to a new object. So when creating a new copy of the board setup to simulate a move on then any methods applied to that copy also affected the original copy, and as such it became a nightmare to implement the algorithm.

At that point I decided to scrap the whole thing and start again with a different way of setting out my game. Instead of creating a board with many different methods for placing pieces, displaying it on the DOM, etc. I made a very simple factory function that contained one array of the current pieces. I still struggled with the minimax algorithm, but got it working in the end by creating copies of the board all the way down the branches and picking every move available, applying a score to each, then sorting through the scores to find the minimum or maximum. The board object also needed a depth counter that was incremented with each move to track the move that allowed the AI to last the longest.

Through the trials of this project, however, I believe I have built a decent understanding of the concepts introduced in the relevant lesson of The Odin Project, and had I settled for my first try then there were many concepts that I would miss and my knowledge of objects would be more limited. For now, I can see the difference between factory functions, IIFEs, object constructors and prototypes and a lot more things explored in the lessons. Easily one of the most challenging experiences but by and large one of the most rewarding. Enjoy!
